welcome back ladies and gentlemens los
love montgomery here
china history podcast with part two of
the thai chinese
we're still deep in the ayutia kingdom
we saw last time the fortunes of the
ethnic chinese living in thailand
rose and fell with the political winds
that
sometimes blew in conflicting directions
in the kingdom
you can't tell the story of the chinese
of ayutia
without the thai history that goes along
with it
at this time 17th 18th century the
chinese
khmer malay lao and mon
made up the bulk of the non-thai ethnic
communities
last time in part one i may have gone
overboard with my
over simplification of the earliest
beginnings of the nascent
siamese state i may have given short
shrift
to the indian influence these indianized
kingdoms like the khmer and the mon
who were historically culturally and
linguistically more tied to india than
anywhere
well they had a very big early influence
in
siam during the kingdom that preceded
ayutiya
that being the sukhothai 1238-1438
the earliest chinese to sail to siam
that we know of at least
who started planting roots there came
during this
sukhothai period that was
contemporaneous with the southern
song yen and early ming dynasties
well we sort of jumped all over the
place in part one hope nobody got
carsick
there was so much going on by this time
in the world
16th to 18th centuries not like bce
always digging for scraps of information
i'm trying not to stray too far from the
topic of the thai chinese but it's been
a
slipperier slope than i expected we know
about the impact of certain
upheavals that happen during the gran
ming and ching
that did much to stoke the fires of
migration during
certain decades cantonese ciao knees
hakkas hakken hokchu hainanese
over and over we keep hearing these same
names whenever early chinese immigration
happened
it was always these geographically
favorably placed communities
defined by their linguistic groups who
were the most
fearless of all and more than willing to
roll the dice and sail off to some
destination in nanyang
into so many other locations as well
and like i mentioned last time no one
knows for sure why but in thailand the
way it ended up was that
more than half of all chinese who
migrated there
came from the chaoshan region the
easternmost counties of guangdong
province
remember from that history of the dojo's
episode
ciao ciao joe and shanto
i mentioned the story of lindau chen
last time in the legend that claimed
this former south seas pirate was the
first one who after settling down in
pattani in southern thailand
not far from the border with malaysia he
was the one who first sent out the call
to the people back in the home villages
of chao zhou where he came from
to come out and be part of what was
happening in this
far west portion of nanyang
and don't forget during the ming and
chang the emperor kept initiating these
hai chin prohibitions that declared upon
pain of death
chinese citizens could not engage in any
private trade
had to leave the coastal areas and above
all were prohibited from leaving
china in fact the da ching li li
the great ching code the legal code for
the qing
empire oh it spelled out quite clearly
how
these overseas chinese were to be
treated quote
all officers of government soldiers and
private citizens who clandestinely
proceed to see
to trade or who remove to foreign
islands for the purpose of inhabiting or
cultivating the same
shall be punished according to the law
against communicating with rebels and
enemies
and consequently suffer death by being
beheaded
the governors of cities of the second
and third orders shall likewise be
beheaded
when found guilty of combining with or
conniving at the conduct of such persons
nevertheless the neglect of such
officers shall be pardoned
if they afterwards succeed in securing
the offender
and bringing them to condemn punishment
end quote
in the early 18th century it was common
for the qing government to call on
foreign governments to send
overseas chinese back to china where
they could be executed upon repatriation
we saw how chinese got a nice head start
on the europeans as far as
siam china trade and transportation was
concerned
there was an intense competition between
the major
trading nations especially with respect
to the dutch
and besides the competition all sides
had to deal with the
centuries-old scourge of piracy
the thai chinese they didn't have a
standing army or a navy to defend
themselves so
with each successive upheaval or
coronation
they had to hang on tight and pull out
all the stops to
remain in the good graces of the ruler
and his court from one king of siam to
the next
the fortunes of the ethnic chinese
always
hung in the balance we closed off last
time with king nerai
narai the great known for among other
things his
affinity for the french and all the
advice they gave him
but narai was overthrown in the siamese
revolution
1688 all mentioned last time and we
could pick up
right here with the accession of the new
king of ayutia
petracha he ruled 1688-1703
still the kangshi emperor over in china
he's not going anywhere until 1722.
whereas king naraya was very outward
looking and tried to utilize the french
as his
instruments to internationalize the
kingdom and increase trade opportunities
king petracha on the other hand he
wasn't that type of leader and had a
deep
distrust of foreigners especially the
ones from far away
as far as the fortunes of the ethnic
chinese and siam
they really got to have a very
prosperous run under king petracha
there was a perfect storm of good
fortune happening that allowed these
ayutia chinese merchants to have
themselves some profitable and
mostly trouble-free years with the sea
ban having only been recently rescinded
in 1684
it meant you didn't have to do the whole
tribute trade thing anymore
now it was all market driven with
professionals handling the supply chain
from beginning to end
without the overhead of a tribute
mission 1688 bad year for the european
traders doing business in siam
they were asked to leave except for the
dutch they got to stay but not for long
they eventually threw in the towel and
though they had lasted long and
prospered
they knew where they weren't welcome so
you could see with all these european
trading nations giving up for the time
being
the ayutian chinese pretty much got to
enjoy it all to themselves
and one of the many things we remember
about the 15-year reign of king petracha
was the explosion of chinese trade and
the positive impact it had on the
siamese economy it was no different from
today in one respect
the markets of siam were filled to the
brim with chinese manufactured products
of all kinds
not just tea silk and porcelain they
didn't have all the nice stuff we have
today in our time but
three 400 years ago as far as foodstuffs
medicines
daily use articles household items made
in china was
as big a brand back then as it is now in
siam
the hot products they exported to the
luxury markets of china were tin
aromatics wild animals ornaments and a
lot of wood
and ayuti itself with easy access to the
indian ocean
and the south china sea became like
a sort of a dubai a regional trading
entrepot
dealing with all the biggest regional
markets
by this time in the early qing there
wasn't a nation or corporation who could
carry out foreign trade in these south
china and
nanyang seas as efficiently
expeditiously and most of all
cheaper than the chinese traders of
guangdong and fujian
this backyard was their specialty
1699 to 1701 saw a political crisis
at the siamese court this was known as
the karate rebellion
this alleged plot against king petracha
led to a purge at the very top of the
nobility food chain
and filled their places with more loyal
albeit and experienced officials
poor king petracha practically from the
moment he made himself king
had to deal with rebellions and other
challenges to his rule
and in 1703 just a few years later
king petracha died suddenly a common
malady back in those times
and if you think his royal passing set
off a succession crisis
you are correct at this time the early
18th century
the ethnic chinese had become
indispensable to the monarchy
to the whole country really just as this
modern thai state was only just starting
to emerge
their mastery in managing and maximizing
the benefits of trade and
keeping the wheels of commerce running
smooth and without interruption
it was critical to the booming economy
that made king petracha's reign
most lively after six years of the
wicked and cruel king suran yantarati
1703-1709
another notable period of china's siam
trade occurred
under king taisa what a friend of the
chinese faction at court he was
taissa reigned 1709 1709-1733
kangshi's hai chin c-ban of 1718-1729
happened on his watch there was one man
who rose to prominence during the reign
of king taissa
i searched hard to find his name but it
seems the
history books have mostly referred to
him as the chinese frocklong
or chaupraya frokhlong the frock long
ministry
in siam handled the royal treasury
all foreign trade and foreign relations
which made him the american equivalent
of secretary of treasury
state and commerce the frackling was a
very powerful position and always had
the king's
royal air and in this position the
frackling
was also entrusted with the
administration and management
of the royal trade monopoly something
the king cared about a great deal
because
it kept the treasury full and king
taisa's chinese frocklong
was quite a man very respected and
esteemed by his peers
gifted and capable in a myriad of ways
and did he ever know
how to please the kangashi emperor and
manage the delicate matter of siam china
trade
the chinese fracklong as king taisa's
favorite
was able to use his position at court to
well bring enough ethnic chinese into
positions of authority to the extent
that
well it led to the emergence of this
chinese faction that
well as you can guess was the subject of
a lot of ire
with many at court particularly the
local thais
and all europeans down to the last man
and when a particularly nasty famine hit
china in 1722
the young chung emperor cut a very
lucrative trade deal with king thai size
chinese frocklong
that saw siamese rice something they had
in rich abundance
exported to china in the form of tribute
mission trade that was allowed to be
imported
duty-free and yongjung decreed any ships
originating in siam
that were carrying rice and sort of got
carte blanche
life-saving for china and most lucrative
for the
ayutia state and siamese rice
shipped to ports in guangzhou xiamen and
ningbo
became the linchpin of china trade
throughout the 1720s
and this win-win state of affairs kept
china-siam relations in a good place
this chinese fracklong was loved by the
king as if he were his own brother
and thanks to this cushy position at
court the ethnic chinese
for now at least didn't have to be
looking over their shoulders or watching
their backs
though no one was patting the chinese on
the back all this prosperity that came
about in the 1720s
as a result of this uptick in china
trade
well aside from the diplomatic and
commercial benefits it also
began to lead to both a centralization
of authority
at the siam court in ayutia away from
the nobles
and in the direction of the government
ministries
politically siam was changing from a
collection of city-states such as ayutia
to a larger more centralized state
let me quote from what a dutch east
india company said in 1716 regarding the
position of the chinese and siam
this man worked for their league or
office this is the
town of nakansi tamaret this was his
take on the kingdom of siam
quote firstly one must know that the
siamese kingdom is presently not as
populous as 25 or 30 years ago because
it has been
visited often by mortality and famine
one must add to this the internal unrest
which occurred often during the reigns
of the three latest kings which were
caused by the kings giving power to the
leading ministers
in order to establish themselves better
on the throne
many of the best people are oppressed
and exhausted and a multitude have
taken flight and settled in the
surrounding lands and kingdoms once the
troubles and the uplands often stem in
the meantime the chinese have
in order to obtain positions done their
utmost to further their policy with a
liberal hand
and insinuated themselves into this
kingdom
so that at present they have in their
control the best and the most prominent
positions at the court
as well as in the provinces this began
in the year 1700
when king petracha the grandfather to
the present king
installed for the first time a chinese
frackling
end quote and this veteran of the dutch
east india company for more than two
decades said even in the provinces
chinese had gained a measure of power
and authority that belied their numbers
a lot of individual narratives made it
down to our day
the dutch documented their experiences
in southeast asia quite thoroughly
and no question about it they had a very
heated competition with the chinese in
siam
and i'm sure elsewhere too and the lack
of amity they expressed in their books
letters and other documents demonstrates
a very clear frustration and animosity
directed at the chinese traders and
residents of siam the ethnic chinese of
ayutia
unlike in the case of other far eastern
trading nations
china for example thoroughly
outmaneuvered the european traders to
the extent that the future
european colonial powers were never
were never able to establish a beachhead
or create some sort of
international settlement in siam there's
an argument that suggests that this
inability for the europeans to leap over
the barriers to entry created by the
thai chinese
impacted the direction that thai history
took
and it very well may have prevented the
humiliation of
european colonization or exploitation
that
happened elsewhere and when king taisa
died in 1733
one of the most brutal succession
struggles siam had ever seen
broke out this one was practically a
civil war
and the one who emerged on top in the
end was king taisa's brother
remembered as king barumakote his
lengthy reign from 1733 to 1758
saw the final hurrah for the ayutia
kingdom
time was running out for them anyone who
wanted to point an accusing finger at
the minority thai
chinese and claim that going back to
petracha
mid 17th century ever since they started
running the frock long ministry
they had used their position of power
and authority
to create a rather one-sided playing
field that allowed their community
more than any other to thrive and
prosper
regardless of how well the system may
have worked it was perceived as
well not exactly fair even though it was
sanctioned by the king himself
well people knew better than to speak up
while king taisa was alive
and for this reason the thai chinese had
little to worry about
but under king barumakote they
encountered a very deadly reversal in
their fortunes
there was a backlash indeed king taisa's
chinese frocklong
was murdered in a particularly brutal
manner meeting his end in a buddhist
temple where he had sought refuge
besides the frock long who served as the
head of the
ayutian chinese community many kun nang
or nobles also came to a bad end
and had their numbers drastically
reduced
those who identified as ethnic chinese
in siam
they took it on the chin like with the
jews elsewhere
this community knew from time to time
these kinds of things happened and there
was nothing they can do
with their inferior numbers to fight
back most
just laid low and figured they'd wait it
out until everything returned to a
semblance of normalcy
which always happened and king
barumakote
kept chinese in positions where they
were the best choice and he saw no
reason to shoot himself in the
royal foot as long as they worked for
him and weren't part of the previous
faction
well as far as he was concerned these
were his chinese and they were left
alone
but very soon into king barumakote's
reign
1734 some in the
ayutian chinese community banded
together and rose up against some of the
repression they were feeling
and this was known as the nikai
rebellion
1734. when the king was out of town on
business
the conspirators rose up declared an end
to
barumakote's rule and plopped a more
chinese-friendly king
on the throne and in matters like this
word travels fast and such a provocative
act like this
as you might expect drew quite a
ferocious response
not all ethnic chinese and siam sided
with the faction who was trying to seize
back power from
king baruch and particularly for this
reason
because of the lack of widespread
support across the
majority of the ethnic chinese community
in siam
the nikai rebellion did not succeed
after the nikai rebellion was put down
you can bet there was a good
old-fashioned
organized persecution of the
perpetrators even chinese who were not
associated with the frock long
or court politics decided not to take
any chances
and fled siam for cambodia and vietnam
and as i said bad news travels fast and
in no time at all the newly crowned
chen long emperor got wind of what was
happening in far away siam
all this persecution directed at his
peoples
well as you might expect he wasn't
amused and when king barumakote
tried to make nice and get the ching
ruler to look the other way
and not pay attention to all the blood
and gore that followed the nikai
rebellion
he was most strongly rebuffed
as we've seen in part one and now
enjoying the favor of the chinese
emperor
didn't make or break a far away monarch
but even in the 18th century
being in china's good graces was still a
wonderful legitimizer and
having access to that china market to
sell your kingdom's bounty
did wonders for the treasury and thence
the king of siam's ability to be so
generous with the people and his
closest political supporters after
inheriting all that the
kangshi and yangchang emperors were able
to bequeath upon him
the chien long emperor got to enjoy a
nice
long prosperous few decades resting on
the laurels of his father
grandfather and great-grandfather and
one of the consequences
of all this magnificent 17th and 18th
century prosperity
came increases in the chinese population
and with such sharp increases in the
population
they could never get enough of that nice
thai
jasmine rice and so by 1736 or so
diplomatically speaking the qing court
decided to let bygones be bygones
and trade resumed and was as brisk as it
ever was
and all that thai rice served as the
foundation to siam
china trade and relations siam's rice
the tin woods aromatics these were some
of the most
high volume commodities in demand not
only in china but in other regional
markets as well
and after the death of king barumakote's
chief minister
who was no fan of the chinese and was
their greatest
antagonizer well for the remainder of
king baruchoth's reign
ending in 1758 it was back to business
as usual
for the ayutian chinese and most of the
good fortune they enjoyed prior to 1734
was restored well what else can i say
except the kingdom of ayutia
that was emerging slowly into the
kingdom of thailand
that we know and love today they had
enjoyed a
nice century and a half more or less of
peace and prosperity
that's a good thing of course but
militarily speaking
they grew a little soft and their next
door neighbor to the west
the burmese well they never forgot what
happened in 1592 when they had to
abandon the battlefield following the
death of their
crown prince now they were back
back with a vengeance with the dangerous
warrior king
along puya on the throne bent on revenge
he was one of burma's greatest kings
founded a dynasty
unified the country and at the tail end
of 1759
he brought the fight to siam he landed
his army in the south and
began working his way north towards
ayutia
by april the following year 1760 king
along puya's burmese army
reached the capital of siam and ayutia
found itself under siege
and then once again a miracle
king olangpuya died just as the siege
was beginning
the siamese historians say a cannon
malfunctioned and exploded near king
elongpuya taking his life
instantly if you read the burmese
version of events
he died of disease or something much
less ignoble
whatever the case the kingdom of hayutia
dodged a major bullet the two sons
of along puya fought it out for the
kingship with the older brother
nongtauchi winning out but this king of
burma wasn't too long lasting and spent
the better part of his three years
dealing with internal rebellions in
burma and after his death
his younger brother got his chance to be
king
and this was the one who went back and
finished off the ayutia kingdom
once and for all this next burmese ruler
xinjiushin he was a chip off the old
block and
even more of a warrior than his father
along puya
he's remembered for two things mainly
first
was his war with ayutia and and the
other thing he's even more regaled for
in burma anyway was his defense of burma
from the chinese armies sent by the qin
long emperor
to make a long story short the siamese
army was in no
shape to take on this battle-hardened
king at the peak of his powers
in 1764 he went back and attacked
ayutiya
and after two years of ravaging the
kingdom the burmese armies converged on
the capital of ayutia
home back then to around a million
people
to 1765-17 the burmese army just
decimated the central plain of siam just
destroyed it
what followed in the wake of this take
no prisoners war
was famine disease and depopulation
foreigners in siam knew this was going
to come to a bad end and they started
heading for the exits
king sinjushin was willing to settle for
a lot less but seeing the sorry state of
affairs the kingdom was in
and how demoralized and undisciplined
the army had become with
officers pleading for mercy well seeing
all this
senzu shin decided to go for all the
marbles and
take everything for his burmese kingdom
the siege of ayutia was pretty brutal
as sieges go and on april 7 1767
the city walls were breached and the
city was captured
and what followed was wholesale
slaughter
the ruling class suffered a gruesome end
executed or captured and something else
while the burmese after thoroughly
destroying this 416 year old kingdom
pulled a carthage on ayutia just as
shipyou africanus emilianos did in 146
bce
following the third punic war ayutia was
ripped up by the roots with the
expectation that
never would it rise again at least not
for the foreseeable future
and all the records and artifacts
the art the splendor of ayutia's past
everything was destroyed in the final
conquest of the kingdom
so horrific was the destruction of
ayutya
it opened the door later on for a city
to the south
of then no great significance also
located on the chao praia
to rise up and become the new
preeminent city in siam and the seat of
the monarchy
this of course being the city of bangkok
so with the destruction of the ayutian
noble class what we'll see for the first
time is the rise of commoners to
positions of power and authority
and in the next episode we will look at
a certain governor of tuk province
northeast of bangkok on the border with
burma
who was not noble and in fact half
ethnic chinese
who fought in this conflict and survived
the burmese onslaught to fight another
day
and we'll look at him next episode i
haven't tried to hit anyone up in a
couple episodes but i will
in this one like most podcasters i don't
like begging you for financial support
laying a big guilt trip on you my
cherished
chp listeners there's two ways to
support the china history podcast
either a one-time donation of any amount
to the
chp paypal donation center and of course
my
patreon page where for three bucks or
more you can
become part of the elite group of
listeners who keep this family-oriented
program
from sliding into oblivion links are at
the show notes at the webpage
at tcup dot media okay
toxin the great next time the king of
tanbury you sure won't want to miss that
then it's upwards and onwards and into
the 19th and 20th centuries
big influx of chinese will arrive in
thailand
and the other southeast asian nations as
well
not to mention i guess the whole rest of
the world this here's a laszlo
montgomery signing off from
los angeles california home of the world
series champion
los angeles dodgers first the lakers now
the dodgers
my cup runneth over do please consider
joining me next time won't you
for another exciting episode of the
china history podcast